#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{bookmark}

\usepackage[authordate,natbib,backend=biber]{biblatex-chicago}

\usepackage[toc]{glossaries}
\glossarystyle{altlistgroup}

% add the bibliography file (linux location)
\addbibresource{~/LaTeX/bibliography.bib} 

\input{glossaries.tex}

\makeglossaries

\let\nomenclature\gls
\end_preamble
\options a5paper
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
biblatex
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf5
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command biber
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Economics of Bitcoin and Cryptocurrenies"
\pdf_author "Bastiaan Quast"
\pdf_keywords "bitcoin, cryptocurrencies, economics"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Bimetallism in Bitcoin and Litecoin?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The situation of multiple currencies, especially in light of the gold analogy,
 brings to mind the idea of bimetallism, the monetary system where the currency
 is based not just on gold, but also on silver.
 The two being interchangeable at a fixed rate.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Also in the light of bimetallism, we can consider Gresham's law.
 Bad money drives out good.
 In the case of bimetallism, the most circulated specie will be the one
 which is currently considered to be undervalued by the official exchange
 rate.
 Meaning that if silver becomes more abundant, its relative value will decrease,
 and people will first spend their silver coins, before they spend their
 gold ones.
 Since exchange rates between cryptocurrencies are freely floating, there
 is no 'bad money', since each currency is valued at market rate.
 Interestingly enough, the rate between Bitcoin and Litecoin seems to trade
 in a very narrow band, especially considering the volatility vis-a-vis
 fiat currencies.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, there is a crowding out of sort.
 This is perhaps best compared to international currency competition.
 Where there is a competition for the privilege of being a reserve currency.
 A foreign investor can choose exchange his national fiat currency for e.g.
 the US Dollar or the Euro.
 In these markets, the good currencies drive out the bad.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
