#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{bookmark}

\usepackage[authordate,natbib,backend=biber]{biblatex-chicago}

\usepackage[toc]{glossaries}
\glossarystyle{altlistgroup}

% add the bibliography file (linux location)
\addbibresource{~/LaTeX/bibliography.bib} 

\input{glossaries.tex}

\makeglossaries

\let\nomenclature\gls
\end_preamble
\options a5paper
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
biblatex
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf5
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command biber
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Economics of Bitcoin and Cryptocurrenies"
\pdf_author "Bastiaan Quast"
\pdf_keywords "bitcoin, cryptocurrencies, economics"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Cryptocurrencies and Inflation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "chap:inflation"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At the time of writing around thirteen million bitcoins have been mined,
 all of this has been mined since the inception of Bitcoin in 2009.
 Currently bitcoins are still being mined, however, this is occuring at
 a decreasing rate.
 Since the parameters which determine the amount of bitcoins being mined
 are fixed.
 We can very accurately predict the growth of the amount of bitcoins in
 circulation, not taking into account bitcoins that are lost or otherwise
 taken off the market.
 It is predicted that the last bitcoin will be mined around the year 2140,
 at which point around 21 million bitcoins will have been mined.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\color red
Quantity theory of money, value and volume
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As mentioned above, there will only ever be around 21 million bitcoins,
 and some will be lost, this makes the system deflationary, which is troubling
 to economists.
 A 
\begin_inset CommandInset nomenclature
LatexCommand nomenclature
symbol "deflation"
description " "

\end_inset

 in a currency's value provides a disincentive to spend, causing economic
 slowdown 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
before "see e.g."
key "fisher1933debt"

\end_inset

.
 Since deflation causes the price of products to fall, it incentivises people
 to save and spend later, which causes the economy to come to a halt.
 Additionally, these savings are not invested properly, since deflation
 simultaneously provides a disincentive for borrowers, by making future
 paybacks more expensive, raising the effective interest rate.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Inflation in currencies, not coins
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Inflation is impossible within the Bitcoin network, as well as within most
 other cryptocurrencies.
 However, inflation in the cryptocurrency economy is still possible, through
 an expansion the number of cryptocurrencies.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
