#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{bookmark}

\usepackage[authordate,natbib,backend=biber]{biblatex-chicago}

\usepackage[toc]{glossaries}
\glossarystyle{altlistgroup}

% add the bibliography file (linux location)
\addbibresource{~/LaTeX/bibliography.bib} 

\input{glossaries.tex}

\makeglossaries

\let\nomenclature\gls
\end_preamble
\options a5paper
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
biblatex
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf5
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command biber
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Economics of Bitcoin and Cryptocurrenies"
\pdf_author "Bastiaan Quast"
\pdf_keywords "bitcoin, cryptocurrencies, economics"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Is Bitcoin Money?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What is money? Sometimes it is obvious, well established currencies such
 as the US Dollar, the Japanse Yen or the Swiss Franc are.
 How about the Euro, it is not a national currency, it is not owned by a
 state, but rather by a collective of member state representatives.
 Zimbabwe owns their own currency, but this has become essentially useless.
 What if money is moved from one, bank account to another bank account at
 the same bank in the same country, through ebanking.
 No physical change will occur (save for a few bits on a computer driver
 somewhere in some remote datacentre).
 In some places sea shells or other rare commodities such a gold or ivory
 are accepted.
 Just as the number of possible moneys is alsmost infiniate, so is the number
 of definitions, but a comptemporary (pre-Bitcoin) consensus would dictate
 somethink like: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
an object or entry in a record that is generally accepted as payment for
 goods and services and debts in a certain socio-economic context or country
 
\color red
CITE!!
\color inherit
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We can observe a number of things from this definition.
 Firstly, money does not have to be an object (such as a coin), but can
 also be an entry in a record (such as a bank account balance).
 Secondly, it assumed to be generally accepted (though not universally).
 Thirdly, a money is not limited to only being accepted in a country, but
 can also be accepted in a certain context.
 Lastly, the existance of one money does not rule out the existance of others.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Bitcoin, the blockchain public ledger is a record.
 Generally accepted, but generally accepted within a certain context.
 Also, coexcistance of moneys.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The question of whether Bitcoin is money is a complicated question, there
 are some standard which are used in academia to evaluate whether something
 is money or not.
 Besides this there are the issues of legal tender, and legal recognition.
 We will start by discussion the academic criteria for a money, after which
 we will look at legal tender and legal recognition.
 The standard criteria used in academia for analysing money are:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
medium of exchange
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
unit of account or numéraire
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
store of value
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These criteria can broadly be interpreted as follow.
 A medium of exchange
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The criteria (1.) and (3.) are clearly fulfilled.
 Since cryptocoins are virtual goods, and multiple copies can be made, there
 is no degeneration over time.
 Furthermore, cryptocoins are a good medium of exchange, transactions are
 quick and relatively cost less.
 The unit of account is not a criterium that is currently well met.
 The volatility of cryptocurrencies vis--vis fiat currencies makes it difficult
 to denominate goods or services in these in cryptocoins.
 However, in that sense it is again similar to gold, which also has a highly
 volatile price as denoted in fiat currency.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Legal Tender
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In discussion about the status of Bitcoin as money, the issue of legal tender
 is often heard.
 The discussion is somewhat misguided in the sense that legal tender is
 more of a means to an end, rather than a goal in its own right.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Legal tender is a rule in which a government imposes on the inhabitants
 of a territory, that within that territory everyone must accept the currency
 deemed legal tender, as payment for debt, goods, or services.
 Legal tender is thus a way for a government to create a market for a currency,
 this currency generally being the one controlled by the same government.
 There are many good reasons for doing so.
 It creates a certain level of certainty, if I want to buy something in
 Switzerland, I know that Swiss Francs will be a means of paying.
 In short, if somebody offers to pay in a currency that is legal tender
 in the relevant territory, the seller has to accept this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At the time of writing, Bitcoin has not been deemed legal tender anywhere,
 so how problematic is this? As mentioned above, legal tender is means for
 government to create a market for a currency.
 Yet this is not the only way for a currency to establish itself.
 This book is being written in the city of Geneva, Switzerland.
 The city is almost completely surrounded by France.
 If we cross the French-Swiss border on one side, and continue on straight,
 we would cross back into France in just a few kilometers.
 Switzerland is not part of the European Monetary Union, nor even of the
 European Union, and therefore does not use the Euro, but rather the Swiss
 Franc as a currency.
 However, most of people working Geneva commute back to France.
 The cross border commute is so common, that nearly all places, including
 state owned enterprises such as the Geneva Public Transport (TPG) accept
 the euro.
 Despite the fact that the Euro is not legal tender in Geneva, it is accepted
 based on mutual consent.
 For clients it often favorable if they do not carry Swiss Francs, and retailers
 are awarded an exchange rate fee.
 Similarly, in many Latin-American countries, it is very common to accept
 the US Dollar as a form of payment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Bitcoin seeks to establish itself through a popular mandate, rather than
 a government one.
 That is to say, by being a more competitive means of transaction for both
 the retailer and the customer.
 If Bitcoin is more favorable to both customer and retailer, then the customer
 can offer to pay in Bitcoin, and the retailer can choose to accept it.
 In it thus through being more interesting as a method of payment, rather
 than through a government mandate that Bitcoin seems to be accepted.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
